docs/pages/_en/beta/guides/revit-params.md, before:

---
title: Revit Parameters
order: 10
---

In this guide we will take a look at how to read the parameters from a Revit element using Grasshopper. But first let's take a look at various parameter types that we encounter when working with Revit elements.

### Built-in Parameters

These are the most obvious set of parameters that are built into Revit based on the element type. For example, a Wall, or Room element has a parameter called *Volume*. This parameter does not make sense for a 2D Filled Region element and thus is not associated with that element type.

Revit shows the list of built-in parameters in the *Element Properties* panel.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params01.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

{% capture api_note %}
In Revit API, all the built-in parameters are represented by the {% include api_type.html type='Autodesk.Revit.DB.BuiltInParameter' title='DB.BuiltInParameter' %} enumeration.
{% endcapture %}
{% include ltr/en/api_note.html note=api_note %}

### Project/Shared Parameters

Revit allows a user to create a series of custom parameters and apply them globally to selected categories. The *Element Properties* panel displays the project parameters attached to the selected element as well.


## Inspecting Parameters

Let's bring a single element into a new Grasshopper definition. We can use the *Element.Decompose* component to inspect the element properties.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params02.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Now hold SHIFT and double-click on the *Element.Decompose* component to see a list of all parameters associated with given element

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params03.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

You can connect any of these properties, then CTRL and double-click on the *Element.Decompose* component to collapse it to normal size. The component is smart to keep the connected parameters shown in collapsed mode.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params04.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Another way of reading parameter values is by specifying the parameter name to the *Element.ParameterGet* component to get the parameter value.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params05.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

{% include ltr/en/locale_note.html note='Since we are specifying the name of parameter in a specific language, the definition will break if opened on a Revit with a different language. A better way (but a lot less intuitive) is to specify the API integer value of the built-in parameter as input value. You can get this value by converting the DB.BuiltInParameter value to an integer in python.' image='/static/images/guides/revit-params06.png' %}

When working with Project and Shared parameters, you can also pass the parameter GUID to the component

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params07.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

## Updating Parameters

Use the *Element.ParameterSet* component to set a parameter value on a Revit element. The component is similar to *Element.ParameterGet* except that is also takes a value to be applied to the parameter. Keep in mind that some parameters are Read-only and their value can not be overridden.


![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params08.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Notice that the *Geometry Element* component is only holding a reference to the Revit element. So when the parameter value is updated by the *Element.ParameterGet* component, it is updated for all the components that is referencing that same element. This is different from what you might be used to when working with Grasshopper outside of Revit context.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params09.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})


## Creating New Parameters

The components under the *Parameter* panel in Grasshopper, allow you to create new Project Parameters in Revit.

{% include ltr/warning_note.html note='The current implementation always creates Parameters of type TEXT and places them under the DATA category in the Revit parameters panel. The parameter will be attached to all the categories in Revit.' %}

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params10.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Create a new parameter by connecting the parameter name to the *AddParameterKey.ByName* component on the canvas. You can inspect the created parameter using the *ParameterKey.Decompose* component.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params11.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Here is how the parameter configuration in Project Parameters:

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params12.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

The value of this parameter can later be read by passing the parameter name to the *Element.ParameterGet* component. You can inspect the parameter value using the *ParameterValue.Decompose* component.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params13.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Commit message:

params guide now says shared parameters

docs/pages/_en/beta/guides/revit-params.md, after:

---
title: Revit Parameters
order: 10
---

In this guide we will take a look at how to read the parameters from a Revit element using Grasshopper. But first let's take a look at various parameter types that we encounter when working with Revit elements.

### Built-in Parameters

These are the most obvious set of parameters that are built into Revit based on the element type. For example, a Wall, or Room element has a parameter called *Volume*. This parameter does not make sense for a 2D Filled Region element and thus is not associated with that element type.

Revit shows the list of built-in parameters in the *Element Properties* panel.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params01.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

{% capture api_note %}
In Revit API, all the built-in parameters are represented by the {% include api_type.html type='Autodesk.Revit.DB.BuiltInParameter' title='DB.BuiltInParameter' %} enumeration.
{% endcapture %}
{% include ltr/en/api_note.html note=api_note %}

### Project/Shared Parameters

Revit allows a user to create a series of custom parameters and apply them globally to selected categories. The *Element Properties* panel displays the project parameters attached to the selected element as well.


## Inspecting Parameters

Let's bring a single element into a new Grasshopper definition. We can use the *Element.Decompose* component to inspect the element properties.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params02.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Now hold SHIFT and double-click on the *Element.Decompose* component to see a list of all parameters associated with given element

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params03.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

You can connect any of these properties, then CTRL and double-click on the *Element.Decompose* component to collapse it to normal size. The component is smart to keep the connected parameters shown in collapsed mode.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params04.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Another way of reading parameter values is by specifying the parameter name to the *Element.ParameterGet* component to get the parameter value.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params05.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

{% include ltr/en/locale_note.html note='Since we are specifying the name of parameter in a specific language, the definition will break if opened on a Revit with a different language. A better way (but a lot less intuitive) is to specify the API integer value of the built-in parameter as input value. You can get this value by converting the DB.BuiltInParameter value to an integer in python.' image='/static/images/guides/revit-params06.png' %}

When working with Project and Shared parameters, you can also pass the parameter GUID to the component

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params07.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

## Updating Parameters

Use the *Element.ParameterSet* component to set a parameter value on a Revit element. The component is similar to *Element.ParameterGet* except that is also takes a value to be applied to the parameter. Keep in mind that some parameters are Read-only and their value can not be overridden.


![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params08.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Notice that the *Geometry Element* component is only holding a reference to the Revit element. So when the parameter value is updated by the *Element.ParameterGet* component, it is updated for all the components that is referencing that same element. This is different from what you might be used to when working with Grasshopper outside of Revit context.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params09.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})


## Creating Shared Parameters

The components under the *Parameter* panel in Grasshopper, allow you to create new Shared Parameters in Revit.

{% include ltr/en/api_note.html note='Currently Revit API does not support creating project parameters.' %}

{% include ltr/warning_note.html note='The current implementation always creates Parameters of type TEXT and places them under the DATA category in the Revit parameters panel. The parameter will be attached to all the categories in Revit.' %}

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params10.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Create a new parameter by connecting the parameter name to the *AddParameterKey.ByName* component on the canvas. You can inspect the created parameter using the *ParameterKey.Decompose* component.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params11.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Here is how the parameter configuration in Shared Parameters:

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params12.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

The value of this parameter can later be read by passing the parameter name to the *Element.ParameterGet* component. You can inspect the parameter value using the *ParameterValue.Decompose* component.

![]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-params13.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
