docs/pages/_en/beta/guides/rhino-to-revit.md, before:

---
title: Rhino Geometry to Revit
order: 21
---

{% include ltr/en/wip_note.html %}

In this guide we will take a look at how to send Rhino geometry to Revit using Grasshopper. {{ site.terms.rir }} allows Rhino shapes and forms to be encoded into structured Revit elements.  It is important to note that the easiest and quickest way of moving geometry into Revit may not be the best method. Determining which the final goal of the forms in Revit can improve the quality of the final Revit data structure and improve project efficiency.

The 3 main ways to classify Rhino geometry in Revit are: 

1. [Directshapes](#rhino-objects-as-directshapes)
1. [Inserted as a part of Loadable Families](#rhino-objects-as-loadable-families)
1. [Use Rhino geomtry to generate Native Revit elements](#using-revit-built-in-system-families)

![Competition model in Rhino]({{ "/static/images/guides/rhino-office-display.jpg" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

![A Quick Elevation in Revit]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-office-elevation.jpg" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) ![A Quick Plan in Revit]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-office-plan.jpg" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

### Rhino objects as DirectShapes

Directshapes are the most obvious and many times the easiest way to get Geometry from Rhino into Revit. It is normally where everyone starts.  While it is the easiest, it it is important to understand that DirectShapes may not always be the best way to transfer Rhino Goemetry into Revit. 

Good reasons for Directshapes include:
1. Temporary models used in a competition submission for quick drawings.
1. Placeholders for part of the building that is still changing during design development.  For instance, while the floor plates might be done, the facade might be in flux in Grasshopper.  Using a directshape as a placeholder for elevations and other design development drawings may work well.
1. A completely bespoke component or assembly that cannot be modeled using Revit native Families.

{% include youtube_player.html id="7kNYSJ3kdqw" %}

Directshapes can be placed in top level Categories to control how they draw in various views.  

Directshapes cannot be places in Sub-Categories. For additional graphic controls, View Filters can be apoplied to custom parameter values.

{% capture api_warning_note %}
Directshapes created from smooth NURBS surfaces in Rhino may some in as smooth solid or converted to a mesh by Revit.  If the NURBS is converted to a mesh, that is a symptom that the NURBS geometry was rejected by Revit.  There are many reasons for this, but very often this projecm can be fixed in Rhino.
{% endcapture %}
{% include ltr/warning_note.html note=api_warning_note %}

### Rhino objects as Loadable Families

Rhino objects set in a family allow to insert multiple instances of an object and also allow for sub-categories.  You can use subcategories can be used to control the visibility and graphics of portions of a family within a top level category. It is important to undertand this only can be done in a Family.  It is also worth thinking if instances need to be used, or larger more complex Families would be enough?

For example, here is an exterior walkway canopy in Rhino.  It is a structure that will built by a specialty fabricator and brought out to the site.  The small footing will be poored on-site.  So here the footings are part of one family and the rest of the structure part of another family.

![An Exterior Walkway in Rhino]({{ "/static/images/guides/canopy-rhino.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

By using mapping layers in Rhino to sub-categories in Revit, graphics and materials can be controlled in Revit per view:

![Plan view with Sub-categories]({{ "/static/images/guides/canopy-plan.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

![Elevation view with Sub-categories]({{ "/static/images/guides/canopy-elevation.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Revit recomends loadable families when:
* Building components that would usually be purchased, delivered, and installed in and around a building, such as windows, doors, casework, fixtures, furniture, and planting.
* System components that would usually be purchased, delivered, and installed in and around a building, such as boilers, water heaters, air handlers, and plumbing fixtures.
* Some annotation elements that are routinely customized, such as symbols and title blocks.
* Rhino gemeotry that is complex and may need to be placed in Revit for drawings.

Wrapping Rhino gemoetry inside Loadable Families have many advantages:
* Repeated objects can be inserted mutiple times allowing forms to be scheduled and counted correctly
* Forms in loadable families can be edited by Revit if needed.
* Forms placed inside Family/Types can be placed in sub-Categories for further graphics control and scheduling. 

Here is a video on creating a Family with sub-categories.

### Using Revit built-in System Families

Trying to work within Categories of objects whic include built-in Revit systems Families such as Walls, Floors, Ceiling and Roofs can take the most amount of thought.

Commit message:

Added Directshape guide images and video

docs/pages/_en/beta/guides/rhino-to-revit.md, after:

---
title: Rhino Geometry to Revit
order: 21
---

{% include ltr/en/wip_note.html %}

In this guide we will take a look at how to send Rhino geometry to Revit using Grasshopper. {{ site.terms.rir }} allows Rhino shapes and forms to be encoded into structured Revit elements.  It is important to note that the easiest and quickest way of moving geometry into Revit may not be the best method. Determining which the final goal of the forms in Revit can improve the quality of the final Revit data structure and improve project efficiency.

The 3 main ways to classify Rhino geometry in Revit are: 

1. [Directshapes](#rhino-objects-as-directshapes)
1. [Inserted as a part of Loadable Families](#rhino-objects-as-loadable-families)
1. [Use Rhino geomtry to generate Native Revit elements](#using-revit-built-in-system-families)

Here is a Rhino model for a competition:
![Competition model in Rhino]({{ "/static/images/guides/rhino-office-display.jpg" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Through a simple Grasshopper script, objects can be categorized for elevations:
![A Quick Elevation in Revit]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-office-elevation.jpg" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

And plan views:
![A Quick Plan in Revit]({{ "/static/images/guides/revit-office-plan.jpg" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

### Rhino objects as DirectShapes

Directshapes are the most obvious and many times the easiest way to get Geometry from Rhino into Revit. It is normally where everyone starts.  While it is the easiest, it it is important to understand that DirectShapes may not always be the best way to transfer Rhino Goemetry into Revit. 

Good reasons for Directshapes include:
1. Temporary models used in a competition submission for quick drawings.
1. Placeholders for part of the building that is still changing during design development.  For instance, while the floor plates might be done, the facade might be in flux in Grasshopper.  Using a directshape as a placeholder for elevations and other design development drawings may work well.
1. A completely bespoke component or assembly that cannot be modeled using Revit native Families.

{% include youtube_player.html id="HAMPkiA5_Ug" %}

Directshapes can be placed in any top level Category enabling graphic and material control thru Graphic Styles.  
![Create a Directshape]({{ "/static/images/guides/rhino-to-revit-directshape.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

For additional graphic controls between elements within a category, View Filters can be applied with custom parameter values. Directshapes cannot be places in Sub-Categories. 
![Add a Shared Parameter for a filter]({{ "/static/images/guides/directshape-filter-gh.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

In addition to pushing Rhino gemoetry into Revit as single direct shapes, it is also possible to create directshape types that can be inserted multiple times for repetative elements.
![Insert multiple directshape instances]({{ "/static/images/guides/rhino-to-revit-directshape-instance.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})


{% capture api_warning_note %}
Directshapes created from smooth NURBS surfaces in Rhino may some in as smooth solid or converted to a mesh by Revit.  If the NURBS is converted to a mesh, that is a symptom that the NURBS geometry was rejected by Revit.  There are many reasons for this, but very often this projecm can be fixed in Rhino.
{% endcapture %}
{% include ltr/warning_note.html note=api_warning_note %}


### Rhino objects as Loadable Families

Rhino objects set in a family allow to insert multiple instances of an object and also allow for sub-categories.  You can use subcategories can be used to control the visibility and graphics of portions of a family within a top level category. It is important to undertand this only can be done in a Family.  It is also worth thinking if instances need to be used, or larger more complex Families would be enough?

For example, here is an exterior walkway canopy in Rhino.  It is a structure that will built by a specialty fabricator and brought out to the site.  The small footing will be poored on-site.  So here the footings are part of one family and the rest of the structure part of another family.

![An Exterior Walkway in Rhino]({{ "/static/images/guides/canopy-rhino.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

By using mapping layers in Rhino to sub-categories in Revit, graphics and materials can be controlled in Revit per view:

![Plan view with Sub-categories]({{ "/static/images/guides/canopy-plan.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

![Elevation view with Sub-categories]({{ "/static/images/guides/canopy-elevation.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Revit recomends loadable families when:
* Building components that would usually be purchased, delivered, and installed in and around a building, such as windows, doors, casework, fixtures, furniture, and planting.
* System components that would usually be purchased, delivered, and installed in and around a building, such as boilers, water heaters, air handlers, and plumbing fixtures.
* Some annotation elements that are routinely customized, such as symbols and title blocks.
* Rhino gemeotry that is complex and may need to be placed in Revit for drawings.

Wrapping Rhino gemoetry inside Loadable Families have many advantages:
* Repeated objects can be inserted mutiple times allowing forms to be scheduled and counted correctly
* Forms in loadable families can be edited by Revit if needed.
* Forms placed inside Family/Types can be placed in sub-Categories for further graphics control and scheduling. 

Here is a video on creating a Family with sub-categories.

### Using Revit built-in System Families

Trying to work within Categories of objects whic include built-in Revit systems Families such as Walls, Floors, Ceiling and Roofs can take the most amount of thought.
