docs/pages/_en/beta/community/index.md, before:

---
title: Rhino.Inside.Revit Community
toc: false
---

Welcome to the {{ site.terms.rir }} community. On this section, you will find the resources created by and for the community.

- Please see the [Discussion Forums]({{ site.forum_url }}){: target='_blank'} to discuss features and potential issues and ask questions
- [Videos]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/community/videos.md %}) contains videos created by community members. These videos help you get started with {{ site.terms.rir }} or tackle specific challenges
- [Blog Posts]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/community/posts.md %}) contains blog posts written by community members

## Contributing to Community

The {{ site.terms.rir }} community appreciates and benefits from your contributions. In case you have created videos, articles, blog posts, etc or have developed custom scripted components for {{ site.terms.rir }} you can share your creations with the community in a number of ways. Prepare a package containing links and other resources, and

- Share on the [Discussion Forums]({{ site.forum_url }}){: target='_blank'}
<!-- Email link here is obfuscated. See Wiki docs for guidelines -->
- Email to <a href="#" data-dump="bWFpbHRvOnJoaW5vLmluc2lkZS5yZXZpdEBtY25lZWwuY29tP3N1YmplY3Q9Q29tbXVuaXR5IFN1Ym1pc3Npb24=" onfocus="this.href = atob(this.dataset.dump)">{{ site.terms.rir }} Development/Wiki Team</a>
- Make changes to the Wiki and submit a pull request. [See Instructions Here]({{ site.metawiki_url | prepend: site.repo_url }})

Commit message:

Added link to interesting forum posts

docs/pages/_en/beta/community/index.md, after:

---
title: Rhino.Inside.Revit Community
toc: false
---

Welcome to the {{ site.terms.rir }} community. On this section, you will find the resources created by and for the community.

- Please see the [Discussion Forums]({{ site.forum_url }}){: target='_blank'} to discuss features and potential issues and ask questions
  - [See this link for a list of helpful posts]({{ site.forum_wiki_posts_url }}){: target='_blank'}
- [Videos]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/community/videos.md %}) contains videos created by community members. These videos help you get started with {{ site.terms.rir }} or tackle specific challenges
- [Blog Posts]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/community/posts.md %}) contains blog posts written by community members

## Contributing to Community

The {{ site.terms.rir }} community appreciates and benefits from your contributions. In case you have created videos, articles, blog posts, etc or have developed custom scripted components for {{ site.terms.rir }} you can share your creations with the community in a number of ways. Prepare a package containing links and other resources, and

- Share on the [Discussion Forums]({{ site.forum_url }}){: target='_blank'}
<!-- Email link here is obfuscated. See Wiki docs for guidelines -->
- Email to <a href="#" data-dump="bWFpbHRvOnJoaW5vLmluc2lkZS5yZXZpdEBtY25lZWwuY29tP3N1YmplY3Q9Q29tbXVuaXR5IFN1Ym1pc3Npb24=" onfocus="this.href = atob(this.dataset.dump)">{{ site.terms.rir }} Development/Wiki Team</a>
- Make changes to the Wiki and submit a pull request. [See Instructions Here]({{ site.metawiki_url | prepend: site.repo_url }})
