docs/pages/_en/beta/community/videos.md, before:

---
title: Videos
order: 1
---

## {{ site.terms.rir }} Review by Håvard Vasshaug

{% include youtube_player.html id="J11LIrDIchw" %}

Created By [Håvard Vasshaug](https://vasshaug.net/) of Bad Monkeys

A 5-star presentation from Håvard Vasshaug of the Bad Monkeys group to [Snøhetta](https://www.snohetta.com/). If you know Revit and want to know how your workflow might be improved, watch this.

## Aussie BIM Guru video series on {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_list.html id="PLBKwx9iS-LumYizAr4cn0kMEhxGfwU7ls" %}

Created By [Gavin Crump](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCry22yTdpgEDdzIZig7NSMQ)

Gavin Crump kicks off a series on {{ site.terms.rir }} with a 5 part series - the new tool which connects Rhino and Revit together! Gavin thinks Grasshopper in Revit is a massive breakthrough for computational designers. In this first part, he covers how to bake out elements from Revit into Rhino using filtering criteria. In the next parts we will cover reading and setting parameter values in Revit.

## {{ site.terms.rir }} with Geometry Gym

{% include youtube_player.html id="0m1rn6EAI54" %}

Created By [Geometry Gym](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC01FBzTNN-umc7w1-MYnABw)

> This video runs through the basics of {{ site.terms.rir }} and how to get up and running with this exciting new technology. Along with Geometry Gym tools with an eye toward facades and structures.

## How-to-Rhino Tutorial on {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_player.html id="fEjVrJuR1ik" %}

Created By [How to Rhino Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/howtorhino)

> This is a short recap of {{ site.terms.rir }} plugin which allows Revit and other apps to run Rhino and Grasshopper within Revit application. Keep in mind that this works only with Rhino 7 work in progress version. With this plugin, you can easily import and export geometry from Revit to Rhino and Grasshopper and the other way around. As this is a native McNeel development tool, it is going to be a game changer when it comes to having the ability to use parametric modeling techniques in Grasshopper and have all of that work seamlessly in a BIM tool such as Revit. 

##  SF Computational Design Institute presentation of {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_player.html id="KF7JyKuTxzU" %}

Created at [San Fransisco Computational Design Institute](https://www.linkedin.com/company/sfcdi/)

> This is a short recap of {{ site.terms.rir }} plugin and Compute technology in Rhino. 

##  EvolveLAB covers {{ site.terms.rir }} - Way Faster Wednesday

{% include youtube_player.html id="XsIgliwPBJU" %}

Created by [EvolveLAB](https://www.evolvebim.com/)

> In this video, we highlight the power of {{ site.terms.rir }} with Grasshopper.  We will place adaptive components and floors using rhino inside with grasshopper. 

## Solar Analysis with {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include vimeo_player.html id="363977394" %}

Created By [Paul Wintour Parametric & BIM specialist, founder of Parametric Monkey](https://parametricmonkey.com/)

> One of the most frequent requests I receive is about running solar access analysis within Revit. Despite the fact that it is still quicker and more accurate to export to Grasshopper, run the analysis and push the results back, many still prefer to stay within Revit. So I decided to do a quick proof-of-concept and I'm proud to announce that it works perfectly using {{ site.terms.rir }}.

## Intro to {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_player.html id="qFy1XcNcBsc" %}

Created By [Rethinking BIM](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC82U-lpftjA7lCeb9Rhdraw)

> This video provides an intro to some of the capabilities of {{ site.terms.rir }}

Commit message:

Added happy hour video to community page.

docs/pages/_en/beta/community/videos.md, after:

---
title: Videos
order: 1
---

## {{ site.terms.rir }} Happy Hour webinar by Marcello Sgambelluri PE SE

{% include youtube_player.html id="ko18HhYpjok" %}

Hosted by [The Revit Kid](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC6TtKCInvnoU7vLNACZRFrQ) featuring [Marcello Sgambelluri PE SE](http://therevitcomplex.blogspot.com/).

Marcello shows "Rhino Inside Revit"... That's right, you can run Rhino (and Grasshopper) inside of Revit.

## {{ site.terms.rir }} Review by Håvard Vasshaug

{% include youtube_player.html id="J11LIrDIchw" %}

Created By [Håvard Vasshaug](https://vasshaug.net/) of Bad Monkeys

A 5-star presentation from Håvard Vasshaug of the Bad Monkeys group to [Snøhetta](https://www.snohetta.com/). If you know Revit and want to know how your workflow might be improved, watch this.

## Aussie BIM Guru video series on {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_list.html id="PLBKwx9iS-LumYizAr4cn0kMEhxGfwU7ls" %}

Created By [Gavin Crump](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCry22yTdpgEDdzIZig7NSMQ)

Gavin Crump kicks off a series on {{ site.terms.rir }} with a 5 part series - the new tool which connects Rhino and Revit together! Gavin thinks Grasshopper in Revit is a massive breakthrough for computational designers. In this first part, he covers how to bake out elements from Revit into Rhino using filtering criteria. In the next parts we will cover reading and setting parameter values in Revit.

## {{ site.terms.rir }} with Geometry Gym

{% include youtube_player.html id="0m1rn6EAI54" %}

Created By [Geometry Gym](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC01FBzTNN-umc7w1-MYnABw)

> This video runs through the basics of {{ site.terms.rir }} and how to get up and running with this exciting new technology. Along with Geometry Gym tools with an eye toward facades and structures.

## How-to-Rhino Tutorial on {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_player.html id="fEjVrJuR1ik" %}

Created By [How to Rhino Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/howtorhino)

> This is a short recap of {{ site.terms.rir }} plugin which allows Revit and other apps to run Rhino and Grasshopper within Revit application. Keep in mind that this works only with Rhino 7 work in progress version. With this plugin, you can easily import and export geometry from Revit to Rhino and Grasshopper and the other way around. As this is a native McNeel development tool, it is going to be a game changer when it comes to having the ability to use parametric modeling techniques in Grasshopper and have all of that work seamlessly in a BIM tool such as Revit. 

##  SF Computational Design Institute presentation of {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_player.html id="KF7JyKuTxzU" %}

Created at [San Fransisco Computational Design Institute](https://www.linkedin.com/company/sfcdi/)

> This is a short recap of {{ site.terms.rir }} plugin and Compute technology in Rhino. 

##  EvolveLAB covers {{ site.terms.rir }} - Way Faster Wednesday

{% include youtube_player.html id="XsIgliwPBJU" %}

Created by [EvolveLAB](https://www.evolvebim.com/)

> In this video, we highlight the power of {{ site.terms.rir }} with Grasshopper.  We will place adaptive components and floors using rhino inside with grasshopper. 

## Solar Analysis with {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include vimeo_player.html id="363977394" %}

Created By [Paul Wintour Parametric & BIM specialist, founder of Parametric Monkey](https://parametricmonkey.com/)

> One of the most frequent requests I receive is about running solar access analysis within Revit. Despite the fact that it is still quicker and more accurate to export to Grasshopper, run the analysis and push the results back, many still prefer to stay within Revit. So I decided to do a quick proof-of-concept and I'm proud to announce that it works perfectly using {{ site.terms.rir }}.

## Intro to {{ site.terms.rir }}

{% include youtube_player.html id="qFy1XcNcBsc" %}

Created By [Rethinking BIM](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC82U-lpftjA7lCeb9Rhdraw)

> This video provides an intro to some of the capabilities of {{ site.terms.rir }}
