doc/tutorials/02 - transfer revit to rhino/readme.md, before:

# Creating walls in Revit&reg; from a Rhino&reg; Curve
This sample shows how to take normal Rhino curve and create a set of Revit system family walls

This demonstration is meant to show that true native Revit objects can be created from simple Rhino geometry.  Editing the curve in Rhino will update the walls in Revit.

![Creating system family walls in Revit](create-walls-in-revit.jpg)


Open Sample files:
1. Open the [Walls Tutorial.rvt](/walls_tutorial.rvt) in Revit.
1. Start Rhino inside Revit and open the [Wall Model.3dm](/wall_model.3dm) file.
1. Start Grasshopper within Rhino.

The component necessary:
1. Add Wall by Curve component
1. Curve Param component from Grasshopper
1. Curve Split component from Grasshopper
1. Revit Element component
1. Element Decompose component
1. Level Input Selector
1. Slider for Wall Height

![Create Revit walls as system Families](create-walls-grasshopper-canvas.png)
After selecting the curve(s) in Rhino and the typical Wall in Revit for the wall family type, Grasshopper will generate the system family wall types  in Revit.

Commit message:

Updated the second video section

doc/tutorials/02 - transfer revit to rhino/readme.md, after:

# Bringing in a Revit&reg; model to Rhino&reg;
This sample shows how to take Revit objects into Rhino

![Revit Geometry brought into Rhino](revit-to-rhino-final.jpg)

### Open Sample files:

1. Open the standard Revit sample file *RAC_basic_sample_project.rvt*.
1. Setting the view to the standard Revit 3d view helps see what is happening in this tutorial 
1. Start Rhino inside Revit by pressing the the Rhino icon under Add-Ins.
1. In the Rhinoceros Toolbar in Revit, open Rhino and a new blank Rhino model.
1. Start Grasshopper within Rhino.
1. Open the [Sample_Revit-to_rhino.gh](Sample_Revit_to_Rhino.gh)

### Bringing across the model:

The Grasshopper definition is split up in a series of categories with a button to activate each one individually.  Please note that the first one you use may not show as the Rhino model probably is not zoomed into the correct area of the model by default.

1. Zoom into the top section of the definition where `Roofs` are going to be transferred. ![Revit Roof brought into Rhino](revit-to-rhino-roof.jpg)
2. Click on the `Button` to the right of the definition.  This will activate and import the Roof geometry on a Layer in Rhino called Roof. 
3. Click on the Zoom Extents icon in Rhino to find the Roof geometry.  This will set the view so you can see the rest of the transfers.
4. Zoom in the next section in Grasshopper definition on the`Walls` section. ![Revit Roof brought into Rhino](revit-to-rhino-walls.jpg)
5. Click on the `Button` to the right of the definition. This will bring in the walls.
6. Go to each successive section in Grasshopper to bring in the rest of the categories.
7. Set the view type in Rhino to Shaded. ![Revit Geometry brought into Rhino](revit-to-rhino-final.jpg)
