docs/pages/_en/beta/reference/index.md, before:

---
title: Rhino.Inside.Revit Reference Guides
---

This section includes many articles that provide full documentation on {{ site.terms.rir }} features or dive deep into its inner workings.

## User Interface

These pages provide detailed information on {{ site.terms.rir }} User Interface and Revit-Specific Components provided in Grasshopper:

- [{{ site.terms.rir }} Interface]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/rir-interface.md %})
- [Components for Revit]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/gh-components.md %})


## Developer Interface

These pages provide detailed information on {{ site.terms.rir }} APIs:

- [{{ site.terms.rir }} API]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/rir-api.md %})

## Deployment & Configs

These pages provide detailed information on {{ site.terms.rir }} deployment and configuration in a team environment, and also provide information on the knows issues and bugs:

- [Deploying {{ site.terms.rir }}]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/deployment.md %})
- [Known Issues & Bugs]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/known-issues.md %})

Commit message:

Added more pages to reference and cleanups

docs/pages/_en/beta/reference/index.md, after:

---
title: Rhino.Inside.Revit Reference Guides
---

This section includes many articles that provide full documentation on {{ site.terms.rir }} features or dive deep into its inner workings.

<!-- 10 -->
## User Interface

These pages provide detailed information on {{ site.terms.rir }} User Interface and Revit-Specific Components provided in Grasshopper:

- [{{ site.terms.rir }} Interface]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/rir-interface.md %})
- [Components for Revit]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/gh-components.md %})


<!-- 20 -->
## Developer Interface

These pages provide detailed information on {{ site.terms.rir }} APIs:

- [{{ site.terms.rir }} API]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/rir-api.md %})

<!-- 30 -->
## Architecture

These pages provide details information about the design and architecture of {{ site.terms.rir }} and the many challenges to make it work inside {{ site.terms.revit }}:

- [{{ site.terms.rir }} Architecture]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/rir-arch.md %})
- [Design Challenges]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/rir-design.md %})

<!-- 40 -->
## Deployment & Configs

These pages provide detailed information on {{ site.terms.rir }} deployment and configuration in a team environment, and also provide information on the knows issues and bugs:

- [Release Notes]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/release-notes.md %})
- [Deploying {{ site.terms.rir }}]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/deployment.md %})
- [Known Issues & Bugs]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _en/beta/reference/known-issues.md %})
